













                                    Acromag, Inc.
                                  30765 S.Wixom Road
                                    P.O. Box 437
                              Wixom, Michigan 48393-7037

                                Phone: (248)295-0310
                                 FAX: (248)624-9234

                               Linux Software Library
                 Information File for IP445 Isolated Digital Output Board
                                      04/10/02




               The  information  in this manual is subject to  change
               without notice.   Acromag,  Inc.  makes no warranty of
               any kind with regard to this material and accompanying
               software,  including, but not limited to , the implied
               warranties  of  merchantability  and  fitness  for   a
               particular   purpose.    Acromag,   Inc.   assumes  no
               responsibility for any errors that may appear in  this
               manual and accompanying software.

               See GPL.txt.































    1. Overview

	This  "information"  file  contains a description of  the Library
	programs used for the following  Acromag  Industrial  I/O  Board:

		 IP445 Isolated Digital Output Board


    2. Introduction

	The   software  for   the  IP445  Output  board  is   implemented
	as   a  library   of   "C"  functions.    This   will   make   it
	possible to utilize the board  by simply linking the user's  code
	with  the  provided library and making function  calls  for  each
	"command"  to be accomplished.  Most of the function  calls  will
	require  a few parameters or the address of a parameter block  to
	be  passed.   The  parameters will  include  the  board  address,
	data   storage   addresses,   and   status   information.   These
	functions accomplish the following tasks:


		 - Read Status
		 - Read Output Data Latch
		 - Write Output


	Also  included  is  a demonstration program which shows  how  the
	library routines are used.  It is also a helpful program  to  use
	when first installing the board, checking it out and learning how
	it works.

	In this document, the term "port" is used to describe a block  of
	8  output  channels  numbered  0  through  7.    Channels  0-7
	correspond  to  port  0,  08-15  to  port 1, 16-23 to port 2, and
	24-31 to port 3.

	Individual output channels are  referred to  as "points".  Points
	are numbered 0-7 within an individual port.


    3. List of Files

	The  library software  for  each  Acromag  I/O  board  is  in   a
	correspondingly named subdirectory on the supplied media.  The
	files which  make up the library for the  IP445 boards are stored
	in the subdirectory named "IP445".

	There  are two types of program files provided.   Library program
	files  are the files which make up the "library". Support program
	files contain example programs which  show how to use the library
	programs.







				   1







    3.1 Library Program Files

	The  following  files are included on the supplied  media  and
	make up the actual "library" software.

	ip445.h    - include file
	rsts445.c  - read ID
	rpnt445.c  - read output point (from output data latch)
	rprt445.c  - read output port  (from output data latch)
	wpnt445.c  - write an output point
	wprt445.c  - write an output port
	wcntl445.c - write the control register

    3.2 Support Program Files

	The  following files are included on the supplied media.   The
	test program demonstrates  how the library  programs may be used.

	drvr445.c - test program to demonstrate library programs.
	apc8620.h - include file for carrier support.
	apc8620.c - source file for carrier support.


    4. Software Installation

	It  is strongly  advised that the user make a backup copy  of the
	distribution  media  and   that  the  original  media  be  stored
	in a safe place.

	The  software is installed by simply copying the library files to
	the  user's  work directory and compiling and  linking  with  the
	user's application program.

    5. Hardware Installation

	For proper installation of each Acromag  board  the  user  should
	refer to the appropriate user's manual.

    6. Usage of the Library and Support Programs

	The  software is installed  by copying the supplied files to your
	work  directory and compiling  and linking  with your application
	program.

        It  is recommended that the user read the  User's Manual for  the
        board  and  thoroughly  familiarize themselves with the hardware.

        For a new user to become familiar with the Acromag Library it may
        be  most  "straight forward"  to proceed in the following manner:









				   2





















             (a) Build and load the Acromag device driver module.

                 i)   See  the  information  file  in  the device driver
		 directory "/home/ip/dev8620/info.txt" for information
                 about building and loading the device driver module.

             (b) Build and execute the Acromag Library Demonstration.

                  i)   Copy the Acromag Library routines from the "Ip445"
                  directory of the source media to a new directory  under
                  /home/ip/ip445.

                  ii)  Copy   the  carrier   support  routines  from  the
                  "carrier" directory  of the  source  media  to  a  new
                  directory  under   /home/ip/carrier. 

                  iii) Use the makefile to build the project.

                  iv)  Launch  the  debugger,  "gdb a.out"  use  the  run 
                  command start the program.

                  v)   The  Acromag  Demonstration  program  menu  should
                  appear  on  the  target processor's  console  terminal.





















				   3





	The following menu is displayed:

		 IP445 Library Demonstration Version A

		 1. Exit this Program
		 2. Set Carrier Base Address
		 3. Set IP Slot Letter
		 4. Read ID ROM Command
		 5. Read Output Point (from output data latch)
		 6. Read Output Port  (from output data latch)
		 7. Write Output Point
		 8. Write Output Port
		 9. Perform a Software Reset

		Select:

	To  perform digital  output and readback, follow this sequence of
	main menu selections:

		 Select 2: To set the carrier base address.
		 Select 3: To set the IP module base address.
		 Select 4: To read the board's ID ROM
		 Select 5 or 6: To read data from the output port data latch.
		 Select 7 or 8: To write output port data.

	To perform a software reset select option 9.

    6.1 Explanation of Main Demonstration Menu

	Following is an explanation  of each menu selection:

        1. Exit this Program

        This selection causes execution to be returned to the shell.

        2. Set Carrier Base Address

        This selection allows the user to set or change the  address
        of the carrier board.

 	3. Set IP Slot Letter

	This  selection  allows the user to set or change  the  slot
	letter of the IP module being used.   The value entered here
	will automatically be entered in the Status Block structure.

        4. Read ID ROM Command

        This  menu  selection will call the rsts445()  function  and
        pass  a pointer which points to the Status Block  structure.
        The  ID  ROM  information   is  read   from  the  board  and
        written into this structure by the rsts445()  function.  The
        information is then displayed by the example program.







				   4





        5. Read Output Point (from output data latch)

        This  command  is used to read a single output point in  any
        port.   The user is prompted to enter the port number (0  to
        3)  and  then  the point  number (0 to 7).   The  rpnt445()
        function is called and the result is displayed.

        6. Read Output Port (from output data latch)

        This  command is used to read a port.  The user is  prompted
        to  enter the port number (0 to 3).   The  rprt445() library
        function is called and the result is displayed.

        7. Write Output Point

        This  command is used to write a single output point in  any
        port.   The user is prompted to enter the port number (0  to
        3), the point number (0 to 7), and the value to write (0 or
        1).  The wpnt445() function is called.

        8. Write Output Port

        This command is used to write a port.  The user is  prompted
        to enter the port number (0 to 3) and the value to write  (0
        to FF hex).  The wprt445() function is called.

        9. Perform a Software Reset

        This command is used to send a software reset to the IP445.
        It does so by calling the function wcntl445() which is used
        to write the control register on the IP445.  A 1 is written
        to the least significant bit of the IP445 control register
        to issue a software reset.

    7. Description of Library Programs.

	Following  are descriptions of the routines and files which  make
	up the library.

	ip445.h - Contains definitions and structures.

	rsts445.c  - This  module is used to perform  the  "read ID ROM"
	function.  A pointer to  the  Status  Block  is  passed  to  this
	routine.  The routine  uses  a  pointer  within  the Status Block
	to reference registers on  the  board  and transfers  the  status
	information from the board to the Status Block.   The ID space is
	assumed to start at the base address plus 128 (decimal).

	  calling sequence:

		 rsts445(ptr);
		 where:
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Status Block structure.






				   5





	rpnt445.c  -  This  module is used  to perform  the  "Read Output
	Point" function for the IP445 board.   A  pointer  to  the  board
	memory map  structure, the  port number, and the point number are
	passed to  this  routine.  This information is used to  read  the
	output point value from the board.

	  calling sequence:

		 status = rpnt445(ptr,port,point);
		 where:
		  status   - (long) Returned value of the output port.
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Status Block structure.
		  port     - (unsigned) Target output port number.
		  point    - (unsigned) Target output point number.

	rprt445.c  -  This  module is  used  to perform  the "Read Output
	Port"  function for  the IP445 board.  A  pointer  to  the  board
	memory  map  structure  and  the  port number are passed to  this
	routine.   This  information is used to read the output port data
	value from the board.

	  calling sequence:

		 status = rprt445(ptr,port);
		 where:
		  status   - (long) Returned value of the output port.
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Status Block structure.
		  port     - (unsigned) Target output port number.


	wpnt445.c  -  This module  is used to perform  the  "Write Output
	Point" function for  the IP445 board.  A  pointer  to  the  board
	memory  map  structure,  the  port  number,  the point number and
	output point value to write  are passed  to this  routine.   This
	information is used to write the output point value to the board.

	  calling sequence:

		 status = wpnt445(ptr,port,point,value);
		 where:
		  status   - (long) Returned error status of the function.
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Status Block structure.
		  port     - (unsigned) Target output port number.
		  point    - (unsigned) Target output point number.
		  value    - (byte) Value to write to output point.












				   6






	wprt445.c  -  This module  is used to perform  the  "Write Output
	Port"  function  for  the  IP445  board.  A pointer to  the board
	memory map  structure,  the output port number, and port value to
	write  are  passed  to this routine.  This information is used to
	write the output port value to the board.

	  calling sequence:

		 status = wprt445(ptr,port,value);
		 where:
		  status   - (long) Returned error status of the function.
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Status Block structure.
		  port     - (unsigned) Target output port number.
		  value    - (byte) Value to write to output port.


	wcntl445.c - This module is used to perform the "Perform Software
	Reset" function for the IP445.  A pointer to the board memory map 
	structure, and the value to be written to the control register are
	passed to this routine.  This information is used to write the 
	control register on the IP445.
		
		calling sequence:

		status = wcntl445(ptr, value);
                where:
             status  - (long) Returned error status of the function.
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Status Block structure.
             value   - (byte) Value to write to the control register.





    8. Description of Support Programs

	Following  is  a  description of the support  files  and  program
	modules  which  provide  an example of the usage  of  the library
	programs.


	drvr445.c  - This is a program  which demonstrates the  usage  of
	the library modules.   This program is menu driven and allows the
	user  to  become familiar with the IP445 board  and  the  library
	software.   The user may,  through  menu  selections,  read  from
	and write to the board.


	apc8620.c - This  file   provides   carrier   support   routines.




	
	
	
	
				   7







	void access_EEPROM(c_blk) - This function is located near the end
	of the file drvr445.c.  This function can be executed by using the
	hidden menu selection 10 from the "IP445 Demonstration menu.
	For a read cycle the user supplies a quad byte aligned EEPROM address
	(0x00 thru 0xFC) to read from.  For a write cycle the user supplies a
	quad byte aligned EEPROM address (0x00 thru 0xFC) and a 32 bit data
	value to write to the EEPROM.

	EEPROM addresses 0xE0 thru 0xFF are not used by the bridge chip and
	may be used by a software developer to store application specific data.

	The access_EEPROM() function calls the function AccessVPD() to do the
	actual read or write.

	CSTATUS AccessVPD( s_block445.nHandle, i, &VPDData, cycle);
      where:
		(struct sblk445) s_block445.nHandle - Is a handle of an open carrier.
		(int) i				    - Is a quad byte aligined EEPROM address.
		(ULONG) &VPDData		- Is the address of a place to get from or put to.
		(int) cycle			    - Is the cycle type write=1 read=0.






































				   8