











                                   Acromag, Inc.
                                  30765 S.Wixom Road
                                   P.O. Box 437
                              Wixom, Michigan 48393-7037

                                Phone: (248)295-0310
                                 FAX: (248)624-9234

                               Linux Software Library
                        Information File for the IP1k100 Board
                                        V2.0
                                      04/19/02




               The  information  in this manual is subject to  change
               without notice.   Acromag,  Inc.  makes no warranty of
               any kind with regard to this material and accompanying
               software,  including, but not limited to , the implied
               warranties  of  merchantability  and  fitness  for   a
               particular   purpose.    Acromag,   Inc.   assumes  no
               responsibility for any errors that may appear in  this
               manual and accompanying software.

               See GPL.txt.

































	1. Overview

	This  "information"  file  contains a description of  the library
	programs used for the following  Acromag  Industrial  I/O  Board:

	     IP1k100 Reconfigurable Digital I/O Board


	2. Introduction

	The software  for  the IP1k100  I/O  board   is   implemented  as
	a library of "C" functions.  This will  make  it     possible  to
	utilize the board by simply linking  the user's  code	with  the
	provided   library   and   making   function   calls   for   each
	"command"  to be accomplished.  Most of the function  calls  will
	require  a few parameters or the address of a parameter block  to
	be  passed.   The  parameters will  include  the  board  address,
	configuration  information,  data storage addresses,  and  status
	information. These functions accomplish the following tasks:

	     - Configuration
	     - Read Status and ID
	     - Read Input
	     - Write Output
	     - Change of State and Level Interrupts

	Also  included  is  a demonstration program which shows  how  the
	library routines are used.  It is also a helpful program  to  use
	when first installing the board, checking  it  out, and  learning
	how it works.

	In this document, the term "port" is used to describe a block  of
	16 channels  numbered 0 through 15.    Channels 0-15   correspond
	to port 0,  16-31 to port 1,  and 32-47  to port 2.    Individual
	channels are referred to as "points".    Points are numbered 0-15
	within an individual port.


	3. List of Files

	The library  software  for  each  Acromag  I/O  board  is  in	a
	correspondingly  named  subdirectory  on the supplied media.  The
	files which make up the library for the  IP1k100 board are stored
	in the subdirectory named "IP1k100".

	There  are two types of program files provided.   Library program
	files are the files which make up the "library".  Support program
	files contain example programs which show how to use the library.









				   1






	3.1 Library Program Files

	The  following  files are included on the supplied  media  and
	make up the actual "library" software.

	     ip1k100.h   - include file
	     cnfg1k100.c - configure
	     rsts1k100.c - read status and ID
	     rpnt1k100.c - read an input point
	     rprt1k100.c - read an input port
	     wpnt1k100.c - write an output point
	     wprt1k100.c - write an output port
	     pldcfg1k100.c - writes PLD configuration to module 


	3.2 Support Program Files

	The  following files are included on the supplied media.   The
	test program demonstrates how  the library  programs may be used.

	     drvr1k100.c - test program to demonstrate library programs.
	     apc8620.h - include file for carrier support.
	     apc8620.c - source file for carrier support.

	     hfilegenerator.c - source for .hex to .h conversion program.
                 


	4. Software Installation

	It  is strongly advised that the user make a backup copy  of  the
	distribution  media  and  that   the  original  media  be  stored
	in a safe place.

	The  software is installed by simply copying the library files to
	the  user's  work directory and compiling and  linking  with  the
	user's application program.


	5. Hardware Installation

	For proper installation of each Acromag I/O board the user should
	refer  to  the appropriate user's manual.


	6. Usage of the Library and Support Programs

	The  software is installed  by copying the supplied files to your
	work  directory and compiling  and linking  with your application
	program.
	It  is recommended that the user read the  User's Manual for  the
	board  and  thoroughly  familiarize themselves with the hardware.
	For a new user to become familiar with the Acromag Library it may
	be  most  "straight forward"  to proceed in the following manner:





				   2






















             (a) Build and load the Acromag device driver module.

                 i)   See  the  information  file  in  the device driver
                 directory "/home/ip/dev8620/info.txt" for information
                 about building and loading the device driver module.

             (b) Build and execute the Acromag Library Demonstration.

                  i) Copy the Acromag Library routines from the "ip1k100"
                  directory of the source media to a new directory  under
                  /home/ip/ip1k100.

                  ii)  Copy   the  carrier   support  routines  from  the
                  "carrier" directory  of the  source  media  to  a  new
                  directory  under   /home/ip/carrier. 

                  iii) Use the makefile to build the project.

                  iv)  Launch  the  debugger,  "gdb a.out"  use  the  run 
                  command start the program.

                  v)   The  Acromag  Demonstration  program  menu  should
                  appear  on  the  target processor's  console  terminal.




















				   3




	The following menu is displayed:

	     IP1k100 Library Demonstration Version A

             1. Exit this Program
             2. Set Carrier Base Address
             3. Set IP Slot Letter
             4. PLD Configuration
             5. Set Up Configuration Block Parameters
             6. Configure Board Command
             7. Read Status Command and ID
             8. N/A
             9. N/A
            10. Read Input Point
            11. Read Input Port
            12. Write Output Point
            13. Write Output Port

            Select:

	To  perform  digital  I/O,  follow   this sequence of  main  menu
	selections:

	     Select 2: To set the IP Module base address.
	     Select 3: To set the IP Slot Letter.
	     Select 4: To download the PLD Configuration.
	     Select 5: To set Up Configuration Parameters.
	     Select 6: To configure the board.
	     Select 7: To read the board's status and ID.
	     Select 10 or 11: To read input.
	     Select 12 or 13: To write output

	To use  the example  interrupt  routines  provided,  follow  this
	sequence of main menu selections:

	     Select 2: To set the IP module base address.
	     Select 3: To set the IP Slot Letter.
	     Select 4: To download the PLD Configuration.
	     Select 8: To  attach   an   interrupt   exception   handler.
	     Select 5: To  set  up the Configuration  Block  through  the
		       Configuration  Block  Parameter Menu.   This  Menu
		       will  allow  the  user to set  the  board  up  for
		       interrupts.  See section 6.2 for  details  on  the
	           Configuration Block Parameter Menu.
	     Select 6: To  configure  the board using the information  in
		       the Configuration Block.
	     Select 7: To  confirm  the  configuration  by  reading   the
		       board's status information.
	     Select 10, or 11: To read port data.
	     Select 12, or 13: To write port data.

	The  interrupt service  routine  will  read  the interrupt status
	registers and  place  the contents in  the status block structure
	to  indicate  that  an  interrupt has  been  serviced.  For level
	interrupts, the interrupting  bit is disabled  in  the  interrupt
	enable register.





				   4





	6.1 Explanation of Main Demonstration Menu

	Following is an explanation of each menu selection:

	     1. Exit this Program

	     This  selection detaches the interrupt handlers used by  the
	     demonstration  program (if  any  are  attached)  and  causes
	     execution to be returned to the shell.

	     2. Set Carrier Base Address

	     This  selection  allows the user to set or change  the  base
	     address of the Carrier being used.    The value entered here
	     will  automatically  be  entered in  the  Configuration  and
	     Status Block structures.

	     3. Set IP Slot Letter

	     This  selection  allows the user to set or change  the  slot
	     letter of the IP module being used.   The value entered here
	     will  automatically  be  entered in  the  Configuration  and
	     Status Block structures.

	     4. Download PLD Configuration

	     This  selection  allows  the  user  to download  a custom or
	     Acromag supplied PLD  Configuration to  the IP1k100  module.

	     5. Set Up Configuration Block Parameters

	     This  selection will cause the Configuration Block Parameter
	     Menu to be displayed.  Through that menu it will be possible
	     to  enter values into the various structure members  of  the
	     Configuration Block structure.   See section 6.2 for details
	     on the Configuration Block Parameter Menu which follows.

	     6. Configure Board Command

	     This menu selection will call the  cnfg1k100() function  and
	     pass  a  pointer  which points to  the  Configuration  Block
	     structure.    Information  in  the  Configuration  Block  is
	     written to the board.

	     7. Read Status & ID Command

	     This menu  selection will call the rsts1k100() function  and
	     pass  a pointer which points to the Status Block  structure.
	     The  current status information is read from the  board  and
	     written into this structure by the rsts1k100() function. The
	     status information is then displayed by the example program.

	     8. N/A

	     This menu selection is not implemented at this time.





                                   5





	     9. N/A

	     This menu selection is not implemented at this time.


	     10. Read Input Point

	     This  command  is used to read a  single  input  point.  The
	     user enters the  port  number  (0 or 1)  and  point   number
	     (0  to  15).  The rpnt1k100() function  is  called, then the
	     result is displayed.

	     11. Read Input Port

	     This  command is used to read a port.   The user  enters the
	     port number (0 or 1).   The rprt1k100()  function is called,
	     then result is displayed.

	     12. Write Output Point

	     This  command is  used  to  write  a  single  output  point.
	     The user enters the port number (0 or 1), the  point  number
	     (0 to 15),  and  the  value  to  write  (0 or 1),  then  the
	     wpnt1k100() function is called.

	     13. Write Output Port

	     This command is used to write a port of 16 points.
	     The user enters the port number (0 or 1).	   The  user  is
	     prompted  to  enter  the  value  to  write  (0 to FFFF hex),
	     then wprt1k100() function is called.

	6.2  Explanation of the Configration Block Parameter Menu

	This menu  is  displayed  when  the  user  selects  the  "Set  Up
	Configuration Block" menu item from the Main Demonstration  Menu.
	Through  the  Configuration  Block  Parameter  Menu  it  will  be
	possible  for  the  user to enter values into  the  Configuration
	Block  structure.   The Configuration Block structure is used  by
	the cnfg1k100() function.  Following is the "Set Up Configuration
	Block Parameters" menu.  All numbers are displayed and entered in
	hexadecimal.

	     Configuration Block Parameters

             1. Return to Previous Menu
             2. Board Pointer:  EFFF0000
             3. Parameter Mask:   00FF
             4. Select Model:       00
             5. Int. Status:        00
             6. Int. Enable:        00
             7. Int. Polarity:      00
             8. Int. Type:          00
             9. Data Direction:    000
            10. Int. Vector:        C0
            11. Module Reset:       00

	    Select:


                                   6






	     (Note  that the values in the menu will differ depending  on
	     your system.)

	     Following is an explanation of each menu selection:

	     1. Return to Previous Menu

	     This selection returns  the user  to the Main  Demonstration
	     Menu.

	     2. Board Pointer

	     The  board  base  address is displayed,  however,  the  base
	     address  can  only be changed through the Main Demonstration
	     Menu.   This  paramter  is  automatically	 updated  in  the
	     Configuration Block when the user selects  the  "Set   Board
	     Base  Address"  item  in	the  Main   Demonstration   Menu.

	     3. Parameter Mask

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a  value  for  the
	     Parameter	 Mask.	 The  Parameter  Mask  is  used  by   the
	     cnfg1k100() function to determine which parameters to update
	     in  various  registers of the board.   The  individual  bits
	     correspond to various parameters in the Configuration Block.
	     A  "1"  in  the bit position means  to  use  the  respective
	     parameter  field to update a register on the board.   A  "0"
	     means not to use the parameter field.

		  bit 0  - Select Model parameter.
		  bit 1  - Interrupt Status Registers parameter.
		  bit 2  - Interrupt Enable Registers Parameter.
		  bit 3  - Interrupt Polarity Registers Parameter.
		  bit 4  - Interrupt Type Registers Parameter.
		  bit 5  - Interrupt Vector Register Parameter.
		  bit 6  - Data Direction Register Parameter.
		  bit 7  - Module Reset Parameter.

	     4. Select Model

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a value  that will
	     select the model I/O mix.

                      Model              Value
                  -------------          -----
                  Uninitialized            0      (power up default)
                  Ip1k100-0024             1      (24 differential)
                  Ip1k100-2412             2      (24 TTL & 12 diff)
                  Ip1k100-4800             3      (48 TTL )










                                   7





	     5. Interrupt Status

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a  value  for  the
	     Interrupt	 Status   Register.   This  register is typically
	     written  to by an interrupt  handler  routine  to  clear  an
	     interrupt  after  the  interrupt  input  stimulus  has  been
	     removed.	The user may access the  register  here  in order
	     to see its function.  A "1" in any bit position  will  clear
	     the corresponding  interrupt input bit.  A  "0"  in  any bit
	     position will have no effect.

	     6. Interrupt Enable

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a  value  for  the
	     Interrupt	 Enable  Register.   Each  bit	 corresponds   to
	     an interrupt input point in the enable register.	 A "1" in
	     any bit position will allow interrupts to  be  generated  by
	     the corresponding point.	 A  "0"  disables  interrupts for
	     the  corresponding  interrupt  input  point.

	     7. Interrupt Polarity

	     This  selection  allows the user to enter a  value  for  the
	     Interrupt  Polarity  Register.   A value of  "0"  in  a  bit
	     position  allows  an  interrupt  to  be   generated  when  a
	     corresponding input point is below the threshold.    A value
	     of "1" in a bit position allows an interrupt to be generated
	     when a corresponding input point  is  above  the  threshold.

	     8. Interrupt Type

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Interrupt Type Register.  A "0" in a bit position  means  an
	     interrupt  will be  generated when  the corresponding  input
	     channel level specified by the  interrupt polarity  register
	     occurs.   A "1" in a bit position means an interrupt will be
	     generated when the corresponding input channel changes state.

	     9. Data Direction

	     This selection allows the user to enter a value for the Data
	     Direction Register.   A "0" in a bit position configures the
	     I/O bit as an input bit.  A "1" in a bit position configures
	     the I/O bit as an output bit.   Note: Direction control bits
	     vary with the model number selected, see instruction manual.

	     10. Interrupt Vector

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     exception vector.

	     11. Module Reset

	     This  selection  allows  the  user  to enter a Module Reset
	     flag.   A  value of "1" will causes a reset of the  module.
	     A value of "0" means do not reset the module.




                                   8





	7. Description of Library Programs.

	Following  are descriptions of the programs and files which  make
	up the library.

	ip1k100.h - This module contains the  definitions and  structures
	used by the library.

	cnfg1k100.c  -  This  module   performs   the   "Configure Board"
	function for the IP1k100 board.   A  pointer to the Configuration
	Block is passed to this routine.  The routine  will use a pointer
	within the Configuration Block to  reference the registers on the
	board.  Based on flag bits in the  Parameter  Mask  word  in  the
	Configuration Block, the board  will be  configured  and  various
	registers will be  updated  with  new information which  will  be
	transfered from the Configuration Block.

	  calling sequence:

	     cnfg1k100(ptr);

	     where:
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Configuration Block structure.


	rsts1k100.c  - This module is used to  perform  the  "Read Status
	and ID" function for the IP1k100 board.	A  pointer to the  Status
	Block  is  passed to this routine.  The routine  uses  a  pointer
	within  the Status Block to reference registers on the board  and
	transfers   information  from  the  board to  the  Status  Block.

	  calling sequence:

	     rsts1k100(ptr);

	     where:
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Status Block structure.


	rpnt1k100.c  -  This module is used to perform  the  "Read  Input
	Point" function for the IP1k100  board.	A  pointer to  the  board
	memory  map  structure, the port number and  the point number are
	passed to this  routine.  This information is  used  to  read the
	point value from the board.

	  calling sequence:

	     status = rpnt1k100(map_ptr,port,point);

	     where:
		  status   - (long) Returned value of the input point.
		  map_ptr  - (structure  pointer)  Pointer to the board
			     memory map structure.
		  port	   - (unsigned) Target input port number.
		  point    - (unsigned) Target input point number.



                                   9





	rprt1k100.c  -  This  module is used to perform the  "Read  Input
	Port" function for the IP1k100  board.   A  pointer to the  board
	memory map structure and port number (0 or 1) are passed to  this
	routine.   This  information  is used to read the input port data
	value from the board.

	  calling sequence:

	     status = rprt1k100(map_ptr,port);

	     where:
		  status   - (long) Returned value of the input port.
		  map_ptr  - (structure  pointer)  Pointer to  the  board
			     memory map structure.
		  port	   - (unsigned) Target input port number.



	wpnt1k100.c  -  This module is used to perform  the "Write Output
	Point" function for the IP1k100 board.    A pointer to the  board
	memory  map  structure,  the port  number,  the point  number and
	point value to write are passed to this routine.

	  calling sequence:

	     status = wpnt1k100(map_ptr,port,point,value);

	     where:
		  status   - (long) Returned error status of function.
		  map_ptr  - (structure  pointer)  Pointer to  the  board
			     memory map structure.
		  port	   - (unsigned) Target output port number.
		  point    - (unsigned) Target output point number.
		  value    - (unsigned) Value to write to output point.



	wprt1k100.c  -  This module is used to perform the  "Write Output
	Port" function for the IP1k100  board.   A pointer to  the  board
	memory map structure, the port number and port value to write are
	passed  to this routine.

	  calling sequence:

	     status = wprt1k100(map_ptr,port,value);

	     where:
		  status   - (long) Returned error status of function.
		  map_ptr  - (structure  pointer)  Pointer to  the  board
			     memory map structure.
		  port	   - (unsigned) Target output port number.
		  value    - (unsigned) Value to write to output port.








                                   10





	pldcfg1k100.c  -   This   module   is   used   to   initiate  the
	configuration of the PLD  and  test it's  success by  reading the
	model  code  byte  from  the  ID PROM.    If  the PLD  is already
	configured and in user mode  then  the re-enable  code is written
	to place the PLD  into configuration mode.  The PLD  will then be
	re-configured.


	  calling sequence:

             status = PLDConfig(c_blk);

             Where:
                  c_blk (pointer to structure)
                         Pointer to configuration block structure




	8. Description of Support Programs

	Following  is  a  description of the support  files  and  program
	modules  which  provide  examples  for  the  use  of  the library
	programs.

	apc8620.c - This  file   provides   carrier   support   routines.

	drvr1k100.c  - This is a program which demonstrates the usage  of
	the library modules.   This program is menu driven and allows the
	user to become familiar with the  IP1k100  board  and the library
	software.   The user may,  through menu  selections,   configure,
	read from and write to the board.

	hfilegenerator.c - Source  code for  the  hfilegenerator program.
	The  source  code  may  be  compiled  to  produce  an  executable
	hfilegenerator program on  most  operating  systems.
	The  user  could  modify this  routine to write the  data  stream
	directly to the Ip1k100 module.






















                                   11
