











                                    Acromag, Inc.
                                  30765 S.Wixom Road
                                    P.O. Box 437
                              Wixom, Michigan 48393-7037

                                Phone: (248)295-0310
                                 FAX: (248)624-9234

                               Linux Software Library
                          Information File for the IP220 Board
                                        V2.0
                                      04/10/02




               The  information  in this manual is subject to  change
               without notice.   Acromag,  Inc.  makes no warranty of
               any kind with regard to this material and accompanying
               software,  including, but not limited to , the implied
               warranties  of  merchantability  and  fitness  for   a
               particular   purpose.    Acromag,   Inc.   assumes  no
               responsibility for any errors that may appear in  this
               manual and accompanying software.

               See GPL.txt.































       1.  Overview

       This "information" file contains  a  description  of  the Library
       programs  used for the following  Acromag Industrial I/O  Boards:

       IP220 Voltage Output Board




       2.  Introduction

       The demonstration software for the IP220 I/O board is implemented
       as a  library  of "C" functions.   This will make it  possible to
       utilize the boards by simply linking the  user's  code  with  the
       provided  library  and  making function calls for each  "command"
       to be accomplished.   Most of the  function  calls  will  require
       a  few parameters  or the address  of a  parameter  block  to  be
       passed.	    The  parameters  will  include  the  board  address,
       configuration  information,  data  storage  addresses, and status
       information.  These functions accomplish the following tasks:


	    - Transparent and Simultaneous Mode Select
	    - Read I.D. and Calibration Coefficients
	    - Write Ideal or Corrected Data to Outputs


       Also included is a demonstration  program  which  shows  how  the
       library routines are used.  It is also a good program to use when
       first installing the board, checking it out and learning  how  it
       works.


       3.  List of Files

       The  Library  software  for  each  Acromag  I/O  board  is  in  a
       correspondingly  named  subdirectory  on the supplied media.  The
       files which make up the Library for the IP220  are  stored in the
       subdirectory named "IP220".

       There are  two  types of program files provided.  Library program
       files are the files which make up the "library".  Support program
       files  contain example programs which show how to use the library
       programs.













				      -1-






       3.1 Library Program Files

       The following files are included on  the  supplied  media  and
       make up the actual "library" software.

	    ip220.h    - include file
	    mode220.c  - select output modes
	    rccid220.c - read offset/gain coefficients
	    rmid220.c  - read I.D.
	    wro220.c   - write output
	    cd220.c    - correct output data
	    coef220.c  - compute offset/gain coefficients

       3.2 Support Program Files

       The  following  files  are  included  on the supplied media.  The
       test program in this file demonstrates how  the  library programs
       may be used.

             drvr220.c - demonstration program for the IP220.
             apc8620.h - include file for carrier support.
             apc8620.c - source file for carrier support.


       4.  Software Installation

       The  software is installed by simply copying the library files to
       the user's work directory and  compiling  and  linking  with  the
       user's  application program.

       5.  Hardware Installation

       For proper installation of each Acromag I/O board the user should
       refer  to  the  appropriate  user's manual.

       6. Usage of the Library and Support Programs

       The  software is installed  by copying the supplied files to your
       work  directory and compiling  and linking  with your application
       program.

       It  is recommended that the user read the  User's Manual for  the
       board  and  thoroughly  familiarize themselves with the hardware.

       For a new user to become familiar with the Acromag Library it may
       be  most  "straight forward"  to proceed in the following manner:













				      -2-

















             (a) Build and load the Acromag device driver module.

                 i)   See  the  information  file  in  the device driver
                 directory "/home/ip/dev8620/info.txt" for information
                 about building and loading the device driver module.


             (b) Build and execute the Acromag Library Demonstration.


                  i)   Copy the Acromag Library routines from the "Ip220"
                  directory of the source media to a new directory  under
                  /home/ip/ip220.


                  ii)  Copy   the  carrier   support  routines  from  the
                  "carrier" directory  of the  source  media  to  a  new
                  directory  under   /home/ip/carrier. 


                  iii) Use the makefile to build the project.


                  iv)  Launch  the  debugger,  "gdb a.out"  use  the  run 
                  command start the program.


                  v)   The  Acromag  Demonstration  program  menu  should
                  appear  on  the  target processor's  console  terminal.




  














				      -3-






                  The following menu is displayed:

          IP220 Library Demonstration  Rev. A
		  1. Exit this Program
		  2. Set Carrier Address
		  3. Set IP Slot Letter
		  4. Transparent Mode Select
		  5. Simultaneous Mode Select
		  6. Simultaneous Trigger
		  7. Read Calibration Coefficients and I.D.
		  8. Write Ideal Data To Output
		  9. Write Corrected Data To Output
		 10. Display Ideal/Corrected Data, Offset/Gain Coefficients
		 11. Clear All Data Buffers
		 12. Alter Offset/Gain Coefficients

		 Select:

	In preparation to write a single analog output the user  typically
	would make the following sequence of menu selections:

	     Select 2: To set the Carrier board address.
	     Select 3: To set the IP Slot Letter.
	     Select 4 or 5: To set Transparent or Simultaneous mode.
	     Select 7: Read offset/gain coefficients and I.D. PROM.
	     Select 8 or 9: To write ideal or corrected data to an output.
	     Select 6: If simultaneous mode, trigger outputs.
	     Select 10: To display ideal, corrected, offset, gain data.
	     Select 12: To Alter offset/gain coefficients.


       6.1 Explanation of Main Library Demonstration Menu

       Following is an explanation of each menu selection:

       6.1.1 Exit this Program

       This selection causes execution to be returned to the shell.

       6.1.2 Set Carrier Board Address

       This selection allows the user to set or change  the  address  of
       the carrier board being used.

       6.1.3 Set IP Slot Letter

       This selection allows the user to set or change the slot letter of
       the IP module being used.  The value entered here is automatically
       entered in the Status Block structure.

       6.1.4 Transparent Mode Select

       This  selection  will  call  the  mode220()  function  and pass a
       pointer  to  the  board  base address  and  the  mode  parameter.
       Selecting  transparent mode  allows individual output channels to
       be updated anytime a new data value is written.



				      -4-






       6.1.5 Simultaneous Mode Select

       This  selection  will  call  the  mode220()  function  and pass a
       pointer  to  the  board  base address  and  the  mode  parameter.
       Selecting  simultaneous  mode  allows all output  channels  to be
       updated  (new values written),  while  maintaining  the  previous
       values at the output.

       6.1.6 Simultaneous Trigger

       This  selection  will  call  the  mode220()  function  and pass a
       pointer  to  the  board  base address  and  the  mode  parameter.
       The   simultaneous   trigger  works   in  conjunction   with  the
       Simultaneous Mode to transfer all channels' digital data from the
       D/A input latch to the analog output at the same time.

       6.1.7 Read Calibration Coefficients and I.D.

       This  selection will  call the  rccid220()  function  and  pass a
       pointer  to  the board  base  address,  I.D. PROM  buffer, and to
       the gain/offset coefficients  buffers.

       6.1.8 Write Ideal Data To Output

       This selection will call the wro220() function and pass a pointer
       to  the board  base  address,  output channel, and data value to
       write to that channel.  The data written is ideal without offset
       or gain correction.

       6.1.9 Write Corrected Data To Output

       This selection will  call the  cd220()  routine to  correct  the
       ideal data value by using the offset  and gain coefficients read
       from the board.  This selection then calls the wro220() function
       and passes a pointer to the board base address,  output channel,
       and corrected data value to write to that channel.

       6.1.10 Display Ideal/Corrected Data, Offset/Gain Coefficients

       This  selection  will  display the  current  ideal  data values,
       the  corrected  data values, the  gain, and offset coefficients.

       6.1.11 Clear All Data Buffers

       This selection will clear the contents of the ideal data buffer,
       the  corrected  data  buffer, the gain,  and offset  coefficient
       data buffers.

       6.1.12 Alter Offset/Gain Coefficients

       This selection allows  the user to  alter the  gain, and  offset
       coefficients read from the board.   The  user  may determine his
       own  gain and offset coefficients by measuring the zero and full
       scale  output voltages  with a DVM,  typing the  values into the
       program,  and load  them into  the gain and offset data buffers.




				      -5-






       7.  Description of Library Programs

       Following  are  descriptions of the programs and files which make
       up the library.

       7.1 ip220.h

       This module contains the definitions and structures used  by  the
       library.

       7.2 mode220.c

       This  module  is  used to select the  operating mode and  perform
       the Simultaneous Output Trigger function for the IP220.


	 calling sequence:

	    mode220(ptr);

	    where:
		 ptr  - (structure  pointer) This is a  pointer  to  the
		  board configuration structure.



       7.3 rccid220.c

       This module is used to perform the read offset/gain  coefficients
       function  for the IP220 board.	A pointer  to  the Configuration
       Block  is  passed  to  this  routine.  The routine uses a pointer
       within the Configuration Block  to  reference  registers  on  the
       board  and  transfers  the gain/offset information from the board
       to the gain/offset buffers.


	 calling sequence:

	    rccid220(ptr);

	    where:
		 ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		 Configuration Block structure.
















				      -6-






       7.4 rmid220.c

       This module performs the read I.D. function for the IP220  board.
       A pointer to the Status Block is  passed  to this routine.    The
       routine uses a pointer  within  the  Status  Block  to  reference
       registers on the board and transfers  the I.D.  information  from
       the board to the I.D. buffers.

	 calling sequence:

	    rmid220(ptr);

	    where:
		 ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		 Status Block structure.


       7.5 wro220.c

       This  module  is  used to perform the "write output" function for
       the  IP220.    A  pointer  to  the  board  memory  map  structure
       (base  address  of  board),  a  channel number and data value are
       passed to this routine.  This information is used  to  write  the
       data value to the specified output channel on the board.

	 calling sequence:

	    wro220(ptr,channel,data);

	    where:
		 ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		 Configuration Block structure.
		 channel - (unsigned short) Value of the analog output
			 channel number.
		 data - (unsigned short) - Value of the analog output data.



       7.6 cd220.c

       This  module  is  used to perform the correct  data  function for
       the IP220.  A pointer to the board  Configuration Block structure
       and channel number are passed to this routine.  This  information
       is  used  to  correct  the  ideal data value with the gain/offset
       coefficients obtained from the board to produce calibrated output
       values.

	 calling sequence:

	    cd220(ptr,channel);

	    where:
		 ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
			 Configuration Block structure.
		 channel - (unsigned short) Value of the analog output
			 channel number.



				      -7-










       7.7 coef220.c

       This module  is  used to compute new gain and offset coefficients
       for the IP220.	Pointers  to the zero,  span,  offset, and gain
       data  areas  are  passed  to  this  routine.   This  information
       is used to compute  the  new offset and gain coefficients for an
       output channel.

	 calling sequence:

	    coef220(zero,span,offset,gain);

	    where:
		 zero  - (pointer to float)  This is a pointer  to  the
			 zero data value.
		 span  - (pointer to float)  This is a pointer  to  the
			 span data value.
		 offset - (pointer to char)  This is a pointer  to  the
			 offset coefficient data area.
		 span - (pointer to char)  This is a pointer  to  the
			 span coefficient data area.





       8.  Description of Support Programs


       8.1 drvr220.c

	Following  is  a  description of the support  files  and  program
	modules  which  provide  examples  for  the  use  of  the library
	programs.

	carrier.c - This  file   provides   carrier   support   routines.

	drvr220.c  - This  is a program which demonstrates the  usage  of
	the library modules.   This program is menu driven and allows the
	user to become familiar with the  IP220  board  and  the  library
	software.    The user may, through  menu selections,  initialize,
	read status and write to outputs of the board.













				      -9-

