












                                    Acromag, Inc.
                                  30765 S.Wixom Road
                                    P.O. Box 437
                              Wixom, Michigan 48393-7037

                                Phone: (248)295-0310
                                 FAX: (248)624-9234

                               Linux Software Library
                     Information File for IP330 Analog Input Board
                                        V2.0
                                      04/19/02




               The  information  in this manual is subject to  change
               without notice.   Acromag,  Inc.  makes no warranty of
               any kind with regard to this material and accompanying
               software,  including, but not limited to , the implied
               warranties  of  merchantability  and  fitness  for   a
               particular   purpose.    Acromag,   Inc.   assumes  no
               responsibility for any errors that may appear in  this
               manual and accompanying software.

               See GPL.txt.






























	1. Overview

	This  "information"  file  contains a description of  the Library
	programs used for the following  Acromag  Industrial  I/O  Board:

	     IP330 16 Bit High Density Analog Input Board


	2. Introduction

	The Library for the IP330  board  is  implemented as a library of
	"C" functions.	 This will make it possible to utilize the boards
	by  simply linking the user's code with the provided library  and
	making  function  calls for each "command"  to  be  accomplished.
	Most  of the function calls will require a few parameters or  the
	address  of a parameter block to be passed.   The parameters will
	include  the  board  address,	configuration  information,  data
	storage  addresses,   and  status  information.  These  functions
	accomplish the following tasks:


	     - Configuration
	     - Read Status
	     - Read Analog Input

	Also  included  is  a demonstration program which shows  how  the
	library routines are used.  It is also a good program to use when
	first installing the board,  checking it out and learning how  it
	works.


	3. List of Files

	The Library  software  for  each  Acromag  I/O  board  is  in	a
	correspondingly  named subdirectory  on the  supplied media.  The
	files  which  make  up the  library  software for the IP330 board
	are stored in the subdirectory named "IP330".

	There  are two types of program files provided.   Library program
	files are the files which make up the "library".  Support program
	files contain example programs which show how to use the library.


	3.1 Library Program Files

	The  following  files  are  included on the supplied  media  and
	make up the actual "library" software.

	     ip330.h	- include file
	     cnfg330.c  - configure
	     rsts330.c  - read status
	     ain330.c	- read data multiple channels
	     mccd330.c  - multiple channel corrected data
	     isr330.c   - interrupt service routine




				   1








	3.2 Support Program Files

	The  following files are included on the supplied media.   The
	test program demonstrates how the library programs may be used.

	     drvr330.c  - test program for the boards.
	     apc8620.h - include file for carrier support.
	     apc8620.c - source file for carrier support.


	4. Software Installation

	The  software is installed by simply copying the library files to
	the  user's  work directory and compiling and  linking  with  the
	user's application program.


	5. Hardware Installation

	For proper installation of each Acromag I/O board the user should
	refer  to  the appropriate user's manual.   Following is a  brief
	list of switch  selections  and  connections  which must be made.

	     - Analog input type.
	     - Analog input range.
	     - Analog input connections.
	     - External trigger connections.


	6. Usage of the Library and Support Programs

	The  software is installed  by copying the supplied files to your
	work  directory and compiling  and linking  with your application
	program.

        It  is recommended that the user read the  User's Manual for  the
        board  and  thoroughly  familiarize themselves with the hardware.

        For a new user to become familiar with the Acromag Library it may
        be  most  "straight forward"  to proceed in the following manner:

















				   2






















             (a) Build and load the Acromag device driver module.

                 i)   See  the  information  file  in  the device driver
                 directory "/home/ip/dev8620/info.txt" for information
                 about building and loading the device driver module.

             (b) Build and execute the Acromag Library Demonstration.

                  i)   Copy the Acromag Library routines from the "Ip330"
                  directory of the source media to a new directory  under
                  /home/ip/ip330.

                  ii)  Copy   the  carrier   support  routines  from  the
                  "carrier" directory  of the  source  media  to  a  new
                  directory  under   /home/ip/carrier. 

                  iii) Use the makefile to build the project.

                  iv)  Launch  the  debugger,  "gdb a.out"  use  the  run 
                  command start the program.

                  v)   The  Acromag  Demonstration  program  menu  should
                  appear  on  the  target processor's  console  terminal.




















				   3








	The following menu is displayed:

	IP330 Library Demonstration  Rev. A

	 1. Exit this Program               11. Correct Data For Scan Array
	 2. Set Carrier Base Address        12. Display Auto Zero Data
	 3. Set IP Slot Letter              13. Display Calibration Data
	 4. Set Up Configuration Parameters 14. Display Raw Input Data
	 5. Read Status Command             15. Display Corrected Data
	 6. Enable Interrupts               16. Display Data In Volts
	 7. N/A                             17. Clear All Data Buffers
	 8. Acquire Auto Zero Data
	 9. Acquire Calibration Data
	10. Acquire Raw Input Data

	Select:

	In preparation to read a single analog input the user typically
	would make the following sequence of menu selections:

	     Select  2: To set the carrier address.
	     Select  3: To set the IP Slot Letter.
	     Select  4: To set up the Configuration Parameters.
	     Select  8: To acquire auto-zero data.
	     Select  9: To acquire calibration data.
	     Select 10: To acquire raw input data.
	     Select 11: Correct data for scan array.
	     Select 12: To display auto-zero data.
	     Select 13: To display calibration data.
	     Select 14: To display raw input data.
	     Select 15: To display corrected channel data.
	     Select 16: To display corrected channel data in Volts.

	In preperation to read input while interupts are enabled the user 
	typically make the following sequence of menu selections:

 	     Select  2: To set the carrier address.
	     Select  3: To set the IP Slot Letter.
	     Select  4: To set up the Configuration Parameters.
	     Select  6: To attach intterupt handlers.
	     Select  8: To acquire auto-zero data.
	     Select  9: To acquire calibration data.
	     Select 10: To acquire raw input data.(Skip for Extern. Trig.) 
	     Select 11: Correct data for scan array.
	     Select 12: To display auto-zero data.
	     Select 13: To display calibration data.
	     Select 14: To display raw input data.
	     Select 15: To display corrected channel data.
	     Select 16: To display corrected channel data in Volts.








				   4





	6.1 Explanation of Main Library Demonstration Menu

	Following is an explanation  of each menu selection:

	     1. Exit this Program

	     This selection causes execution to be returned to the shell.

	     2. Set Carrier Address

	     This selection  allows the user to set or change the address
	     of the carrier board being used.

	     3. Set IP Slot Letter

	     This  selection  allows the user to set or change  the  slot
	     letter of the IP module being used.   The value entered here
	     will  automatically  be  entered in  the  Configuration  and
	     Status Block structures.

	     4. Set Up Configuration Parameters

	     This  selection will cause the Configuration  Parameter Menu
	     to be displayed.	

	     Through this menu it will be  possible to enter values  into
	     the   various   structure  members  of   the   Configuration
	     Parameters structure.   See section 6.2 on the Configuration
	     Parameter Menu which follows.

	     5. Read Status Command & ID Command

	     This  menu  selection  will call the rsts330() function  and
	     pass  a pointer which  points  to  the  Configuration  Block
	     structure.   The current status information is read from the
	     board  and written  into this  structure  by  the  rsts330()
	     function.     The board status information is then displayed
	     by the example program.

	     6. Attach Exception Handler

	     This  menu selection allows the user to attach the interrupt
	     handler  for  use  with  the  demonstration  program.   When
	     interrupts  are  enabled  the  start covnersion routine will
	     block until conversions are complete.

	     7. N/A

	     This menu selection is not implemented at this time.


	     8. Acquire Auto Zero Data

	     This command is used to obtain auto-zero values for the scan
	     array.   Auto-zero  values will  be converted and updated in
	     the auto-zero array.




				   5





	     9. Acquire Calibration Data

	     This command is used to obtain  calibration data  values for
	     the scan array.   Calibration  values will  be converted and
	     updated in the calibration array.

	     10. Acquire Raw Input Data

	     This command is used to obtain raw input data values for the
	     scan array.  Each element active in the  scan  array will be
	     converted  and  updated  in  the  raw input data scan array.
	     The scan array parameters are selected in the  Configuration
	     Parameters section.

	     11. Correct Data For Scan Array

	     This command is used to correct data for  multiple  channels
	     in the scan array.   For each element  of  the  scan  array,
	     auto-zero,  calibration,  and raw  input  data  are used  to
	     produce the corrected data  value  that  is  placed  in  the
	     corrected data array.

	     12. Display Auto Zero Data

	     This menu selection will display the auto-zero data  buffer.

	     13. Display Calibration Data

	     This  menu  selection  will  display  the  calibration  data
	     buffer.

	     14. Display Raw Input Data

	     This  menu selection will display the raw input data buffer.

	     15. Display Corrected Data

	     This  menu selection will display the corrected data buffer.

	     16. Display Corrected Data In Volts

	     This  menu  selection  will  display  the  contents  of  the
	     corrected data buffer in Volts.

	     17. Clear All Data Buffers

	     This  menu  selection will clear the auto-zero, calibration,
	     raw, and corrected data buffers.












				   6




	6.2  Explanation of the Configuration Parameter Menu

	This menu  is  displayed  when  the  user  selects  the  "Set  Up
	Configuration"  menu  item from the  Library  Demonstration Menu.
	Through the Configuration Parameter Menu it will be possible  for
	the user to enter values into the Configuration Structure.    The
	Configuration  Structure is  used by  the cnfg330(), and ain330()
	functions.    Following  is the "Set Up Configuration Parameters"
	menu.	All numbers  are  displayed  and entered  in hexadecimal.

	     Configuration Parameters

	     1. Return to Previous Menu
	     2. Board Pointer:	    FFFF0100
	     3. Input Range:        1
	     4. Acquisition Mode:   0
	     5. Scan Mode:          0
	     6. Start Channel:	    0
	     7. End Channel:	    f
	     8. Data Format:	    1
	     9. Timer Prescaler:    ff
	    10. Conversion Timer:   0015
	    11. Timer Enable:	    0
	    12. Trigger Direction:  1
	    13. Interrupt Mode:     0
	    14. Interrupt Vector:   b0
	    15. Set Up Gain Array

	    Select:
	     (Note menu values will differ depending on your system.)

	     Following is an explanation of each menu selection:

	     1. Return to Previous Menu

	     This selection returns the user to the  Main  Library  Menu.

	     2. Board Pointer

	     The  board  base  address is displayed,  however,  the  base
	     address  can  only  be  changed  through  the  Main  Library
	     Demonstration Menu.  This parameter is automatically updated
	     in  the Configuration Block when the user selects  the  "Set
	     Board  Base Address" item in the  Main  Demonstration  Menu.

	     3. Input Range

	     This  selection  allows  the  user  to  enter  a  value that
	     corresponds to the analog input range configuration  switch.
	     The library routines need  the input  range  information  to
	     determine what voltages to use for auto-zero and calibration
	     data samples.  Valid values are as follows:

		             Value
		             -----
		    0 to +5    0
		   -5 to +5    1
		  -10 to +10   2
		    0 to +10   3


				   7






	     4. Acquisition Mode

	     This selection allows  the user to  enter a  value  for  the
	     Acquisition Mode.  Valid values are as follows:

		                 Value
		                 -----
		  Differential     0
		  Single Ended     1
		  Auto Zero        2
		  Calibration      3


	     5. Scan Mode

	     This selection allows  the user to  enter a  value  for  the
	     Scan Mode.  Valid values are as follows:

	                             Value
	                             -----
	       Disable Scan            0
	       Uniform Continuous      1
	       Uniform Single          2
	       Burst Continuous        3
	       Burst Single            4
	       External Trigger Only   5

	     6. Start Channel

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     starting channel of the scan.

	     7. End Channel

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     ending channel of the scan.

	     8. Output Data Format

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Output Data Format.   As supplied, the demonstration program
	     and support routines use straight binary output data format.
	     To  use  binary  twos  complement  output  data  format  the
	     user  must  change  the  typedef  "unsigned  short  word" to
	     "short word" in the include file "ip330.h".  The library and
	     demonstration program must be recompiled.

	       Valid values are as follows:

	                         Value
	                         -----
	       Two's Compliment    0
	       Straight Binary	   1






				   8





	     9. Timer Prescaler

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Timer Prescaler.  The Timer Prescaler is used to control the
	     interval time between conversions.   The  timer value  is an
	     8-bit value and has a minimum  allowed value  restriction of
	     0x50 or 80 decimal.

	     10. Conversion Timer

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Conversion Timer. The Conversion Timer is used together with
	     the  Timer Prescaler  to derive  precisely  timed  intervals
	     between conversions.   The timer value is a 16-bit value and
	     has a minimum allowed value restriction of 1.

	     11. Timer Enable

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Timer Enable.  Valid values are as follows:

	                         Value
	                         -----
	       Disable Timer       0
	       Enable Timer        1

	     12. External Trigger Direction

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     External Trigger Direction.     As  an  input,  the external
	     trigger input may be driven from a TTL compatible, debounced
	     signal.  As an output, the external trigger output may drive
	     additional IP330s. Valid values are as follows:

	                         Value
	                         -----
	       Trigger Input	   0
	       Trigger Output	   1

	     13. Interrupt Mode

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Interrupt  Mode.	    The  Demonstration  Program  supports
	     interrupts on input channel  data  acqusition.    Interrupts
	     on auto-zero or calibration data acqusition require the user
	     to  write  their  own  interrupt  service  routines.   Valid
	     values are as follows:

	                                Value
	                                -----
	     Interrupts Disabled          0
	     Interrupt After Each Channel 1
	     Interrupt After Each Scan	  2

	     14. Interrupt Vector

	     This  selection  allows  the user to enter a value  for  the
	     Interrupt Vector.


				   9





	     15. Set Up Gain Array

	     This selection allows the user to enter a value for the Gain
	     to  be  used  for the conversion of  analog  input  signals.
	     This selection will cause a brief menu to be displayed.  The
	     user may choose to enter a gain code for each element of the
	     array. Valid values are as follows:

		             Value
		             -----
		  Gain of 1    0
		  Gain of 2    1
		  Gain of 4    2
		  Gain of 8    3

	7. Description of Library Programs.

	Following  are descriptions of the programs and files which  make
	up the library.

	ip330.h - This module contains the definitions and  structures
	used by the library.

	rsts330()  - This  module is used to perform the  "read  status"
	function  for the ip330 board.	  A pointer to the configuration
	structure is passed to this routine.  The routine uses a pointer
	within the configuration structure to reference registers on the
	board and transfers the status information from the board to the
	configuration structure.

	  calling sequence:

	     rsts330(ptr);

	     where:
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  configuration structure.


	convert() - This module is used to read input  channel  data  for
	the IP330  board.   A pointer to the  Configuration  Structure is
	passed to  this routine.    The Configuration Structure  contains
	information  used to  setup the  acquisition mode,  start and end
	channels,  select the  trigger type,  and to  point to  the  data
	storage area.  Also, the Gain Array, located  with  a pointer  in
	the Configuration Structure, is used for selecting the individual
	channel gains.

	  calling sequence:

	     convert(ptr);

	     where:
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Configuration Structure.





				   10







	mccd330() - This module is used  to perform the "correct multiple
	channel data" function  for the IP330 board.   A pointer  to  the
	Configuration Structure is passed to this routine.  The Structure
	contains pointers to the auto-zero, calibration,  raw input data,
	and  corrected  data  buffers.	  The  routine  takes  the  auto-
	zero,  calibration,  and  raw  input  data  values as  inputs  to
	the  data  correction  equation.   The  corrected  data  is  then
	placed  into  the  corrected data array that corresponds  to that
	channel.

	  calling sequence:

	     mccd330(ptr);

	     where:
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Configuration Structure.



	calibrate()  -	 This  module  is  used  to  read  auto-zero  and
	calibration  data  for  the  IP330  board.    A  pointer  to  the
	Configuration  Structure and the mode  (auto-zero or calibration)
	is passed to this routine.   The Configuration Structure contains
	information  used to  setup the  acquisition mode and to point to
	the data storage area.	 Also, the Gain  Array,  located  with  a
	pointer in the Configuration Structure, is used for selecting the
	calibration input and gain.

	  calling sequence:

	     calibrate(ptr, mode);

	     where:
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Configuration Structure.
		  mode - (int) The mode to use (auto-zero or calibration).



	cnfg330() - This module  is used to perform the "Configure Board"
	function  for  the IP330 board.   A  pointer to the Configuration
	Structure is passed to this routine.   The  routine  will  use  a
	pointer  within  the  Configuration  Structure  to  reference the
	registers  on  the  board.    Based  on  items  selected  in  the
	Configuration Structure, the board will be configured and various
	registers will be  updated  with  new information which  will  be
	transferred from the Configuration Structure.

	  calling sequence:

	     cnfg330(ptr);

	     where:
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Configuration Structure.


				   11







	build_control() - This module is used to generate a  control word
	for the IP330 board.   A  pointer to the Configuration  Structure
	is passed to this routine.    The  routine  will  use  a  pointer
	within the Configuration Structure to  reference the registers on
	the  board.    Based  on  items  selected  in  the  Configuration
	Structure,  the  routine  will generate the required control word
	for the IP330 board.

	  calling sequence:

	     build_control(ptr);

	     where:
		  ptr  - (structure  pointer)  This is a pointer  to  the
		  Configuration Structure.



	8. Description of Support Programs

	Following  is  a  description of the support  files  and  program
	modules  which  provide  examples  for  the  use  of  the library
	programs.

	apc8620.c - This  file   provides   carrier   support   routines.

	drvr330.c  - This  is a program which demonstrates the  usage  of
	the library modules.   This program is menu driven and allows the
	user to become familiar with the  IP330  board  and  the  library
	software.   The user may,  through menu  selections,   configure,
	read from, and write to the board.



























				   12

